FF130 CSP report-to directive (#35331)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/headers/content-security-policy/report-uri/index.md

{{HTTPSidebar}}{{deprecated_header}}

> [!WARNING]
> The {{CSP("report-to")}} directive is intended to replace `report-uri`, and in browser that support `report-to`, the `report-uri` directive is ignored.
>
> However until `report-to` is broadly supported you should specify both headers as shown:
>
> ```http

> > Content-Security-Policy: …; report-uri https://endpoint.example.com; report-to groupname

Author: - [ ] Needs to be revisited. Probably should list all options here - see https://developer.chrome.com/blog/reporting-api-migration#csp_reporting_migration for inspiration

> ```

The deprecated HTTP {{HTTPHeader("Content-Security-Policy")}} (CSP) **`report-uri`** directive instructs the user agent to report attempts to violate the Content Security Policy.

> These violation reports consist of [JSON documents](#violation_report_syntax) sent via an HTTP POST request to the specified URI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These violation reports consist of [JSON documents](#violation_report_syntax) sent via an HTTP `POST` request to the specified URI.
```

{{HTTPSidebar}}{{deprecated_header}}

> [!WARNING]
> The {{CSP("report-to")}} directive is intended to replace `report-uri`, and in browsers that support `report-to`, the `report-uri` directive is ignored.
>
> However until `report-to` is broadly supported you can specify both headers as shown:
>
> ```http

> > Content-Security-Policy: …; report-uri https://endpoint.example.com; report-to endpoint_name

Author: Noe, it is only a groupname if you have a group, which only happens if the deprecated Report-To header is used to supply one. So this change is how it "should be" going forward.

```

- \<uri>
  - : A URI indicating where the report must be sent.

### Violation report syntax

> The report JSON object is sent in an HTTP POST with the {{HTTPHeader("Content-Type")}} of `application/csp-report`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The report JSON object is sent via an HTTP `POST` operation with a {{HTTPHeader("Content-Type")}} of `application/csp-report`.
```

> It is an object with the single top level property `"csp-report"` that contains an object with the following properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is an object with a single top-level property` `"csp-report"`` which contains an object with the following properties:
```

Reviewer: My suggestion unfortunately introduced a double backtick, which screwed up the formatting. Sorry about that. I've made a small commit directly to your branch that fixes it.

- `blocked-uri`
  - : The URI of the resource that was blocked from loading by the Content Security Policy.
    If the blocked URI is from a different origin than the `document-uri`, then the blocked URI is truncated to contain just the scheme, host, and port.
- `disposition`
  - : Either `"enforce"` or `"report"` depending on whether the {{HTTPHeader("Content-Security-Policy-Report-Only")}} header or the `Content-Security-Policy` header is used.
- `document-uri`
  - : The URI of the document in which the violation occurred.
- `effective-directive`
  - : The directive whose enforcement caused the violation.

>     Some browsers may provide different values, such as Chrome providing `style-src-elem`/`style-src-attr`, even when the actually enforced directive was `style-src`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Some browsers may provide different values, such as Chrome providing `style-src-elem`/`style-src-attr`, even when the enforced directive was `style-src`.
```

- `original-policy`
  - : The original policy as specified by the `Content-Security-Policy` HTTP header.
- `referrer` {{Deprecated_Inline}} {{Non-standard_Inline}}
  - : The referrer of the document in which the violation occurred.
- `script-sample`
  - : The first 40 characters of the inline script, event handler, or style that caused the violation.

>     Only applicable to `script-src*` and `style-src*` violations, when they contain the `'report-sample'`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Only applicable to `script-src*` and `style-src*` violations, when they contain the `'script-sample'`.
```

Reviewer: I wasn't sure where `report-sample` came from, so I guessed you meant `script-sample`. Am I wrong? If so, is there a link for more info that you can give?

Author: This is a very good question, which I have answered in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/35331/commits/0f8f8a315906e74e29288367c19f48de44d515ab

It turns out `report-sample` is a keyword that you can apply  like `unsafe-inline`, or `report-to` that is required for the sample to be sent. This exists because if you have a violation you almost certainly can't trust stuff from your report, and you might not want to send it.

I've added all the restrictions to both this violation report and to the `SecurityPolicyViolationEvent`. I will also add to `CSPViolationReportBody` when I get to that!

- `status-code`
  - : The HTTP status code of the resource on which the global object was instantiated.
- `violated-directive` {{deprecated_inline}}
  - : The directive whose enforcement caused the violation. The `violated-directive` is a historic name for the `effective-directive` field and contains the same value.

## Examples

### CSP violation report with Content-Security-Policy

Let's consider a page located at `http://example.com/signup.html`.

> It uses the following policy, disallowing everything but stylesheets from `cdn.example.com`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It uses the following policy, disallowing everything except stylesheets loaded from `cdn.example.com`.
```

```http
Content-Security-Policy: default-src 'none'; style-src cdn.example.com; report-to /_/csp-reports
```

The HTML of `signup.html` looks like this:

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en-US">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <title>Sign Up</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    Here be content.
  </body>
</html>
```

Can you spot the mistake? Stylesheets are allowed to be loaded only from `cdn.example.com`, yet the website tries to load one from its own origin (`http://example.com`).

> A browser capable of enforcing CSP would send the following violation report as a POST request to `http://example.com/_/csp-reports`, when the document is visited:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A browser capable of enforcing CSP would send the following violation report as a `POST` request to `http://example.com/_/csp-reports` when the document is visited:
```

```json
{
  "csp-report": {
    "blocked-uri": "http://example.com/css/style.css",
    "disposition": "report",
    "document-uri": "http://example.com/signup.html",
    "effective-directive": "style-src-elem",
    "original-policy": "default-src 'none'; style-src cdn.example.com; report-uri /_/csp-reports",
    "referrer": "",
    "status-code": 200,
    "violated-directive": "style-src-elem"
  }
}
```

As you can see, the report includes the full path to the violating resource in `blocked-uri`.
This is not always the case.

> For example, if the `signup.html` attempted to load CSS from `http://anothercdn.example.com/stylesheet.css`, the browser would _not_ include the full path, but only the origin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if `signup.html` attempted to load CSS from `http://anothercdn.example.com/stylesheet.css`, the browser would _not_ include the full path, only the origin,
```

(`http://anothercdn.example.com`) in order to prevent leaking sensitive information about cross-origin resources.
The CSP specification [gives an explanation](https://www.w3.org/TR/CSP/#security-violation-reports) of this behavior.

### CSP violation report with Content-Security-Policy-Report-Only

The `report-uri` directive can also be used with the {{httpheader("Content-Security-Policy-Report-Only")}} response header.

> This header allows the browser to report but not block on violations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This header allows the browser to report but not block on violations for testing purposes.
```

The HTTP header would be much the same.

```http
Content-Security-Policy-Report-Only: default-src 'none'; style-src cdn.example.com; report-to /_/csp-reports
```

The report would be the same except for the disposition `"report"` and of course the `"original-policy"`:

```json
{
  "csp-report": {
    "blocked-uri": "http://example.com/css/style.css",
    "disposition": "report",
    "document-uri": "http://example.com/signup.html",
    "effective-directive": "style-src-elem",
    "original-policy": "default-src 'none'; style-src cdn.example.com; report-uri /_/csp-reports",
    "referrer": "",
    "status-code": 200,
    "violated-directive": "style-src-elem"
  }
}
```

### CSP violation logging

Given a server that sends responses with the following `Content-Security-Policy` header:

```http
Content-Security-Policy: default-src https:; report-uri /csp-violation-report-endpoint/
```

> `/csp-violation-report-endpoint/` could for example run a PHP something like the following that logs the JSON detailing the violation and, if the violation is the first one added to the log file, sends an email to an administrator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`/csp-violation-report-endpoint/` could for example run a PHP script like the following that logs the JSON detailing the violation and, if the violation is the first one added to the log file, sends an email to an administrator:
```
